[master < gnn_node_classification] Docs for gnn node classification (#573)
memgraph/docs: mage/query-modules/python/gnn-node-classification.md

## Abstract

Intuitively, node classification is problem where one has to determine labelling of samples from other neighbours’ labels.
Little more formally, let $G=(V,E)$ be a graph, S set of all labels, and $f : V → S$ vertex labelling function which returns true labels. From given partial function $g : V’ ⊆ V → S$ (training examples) node classification model aims to learn function $g’ : V → S$ which tries to predict as many true labels as possible. It is motivated by sociological concept of “homophily”: individual nodes tend to associate and bond with each other because they probably have similar labels.

## User story

Set $V$ in this case can be a lot of things, the most common are scientific publications, proteins, Reddit posts etc. In the same respective order, set $E$ can be citation of publications, protein connections or connection of posts commented by same user. Therefore, if user wants to classify publication relevant to its field, find if protein is helpful to curing new diseases, or simply find out to which subreddit its post naturally belongs, it should try out this approach. Given any not completely labeled graph, this problem will find all nodes’ labels.

> In this query module, we will concentrate on one very important use case of node classification: **Fraud detection**.

Reviewer: It seems to me that this module doesn't have any features specific to fraud detection.
I’d cut this sentence, and instead edit the user story so that it's about fraud detection and not science/reddit datasets

`python/node_classification.py`. You can also jump to the [download
page](https://memgraph.com/download), download **Memgraph Platform** and fire up
**Node Classification**. We have prepared an homogenouse graph **Yelp-Fraud (Multi-relational Graph Dataset for Yelp Spam Review Detection)** dataset on which you can
explore node classification using a **[Jupyter
Notebook](https://github.com/memgraph/jupyter-memgraph-tutorials)** and other Memgraph **home-made** heterogeneous graph fraud detection dataset.

Feel free to open a **[GitHub issue](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/issues)**
or start a discussion on **[Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph)** if you want
to speed up development.

How should **you** use the following module? Load dataset, call `set_model_parameters`, and let the training begin! When training is finished, models are saved. You can test them on other data (which model has not already seen!) and check the results!
The module reports the [mean average
precision](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.average_precision_score.html)
for every batch _training_ or _evaluation_ done.

### Usage

> The following procedure is expected when using **Node classification**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A basic node classification workflow is as follows:
```

> - fill Memgraph with data using Cypher, CSV, or easily with our already prepared datasets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- load data to Memgraph
```
Do we have a docs page about loading data to Memgraph?

- you should first set parameters by calling `set_model_parameters()` function
  - you should probably set **node features** label
- now call `train()` function
- take a look of training data with `get_training_data()` function
- optionally use `save_model()` and `load_model()` if you want

> - use `predict()` for predicting classes on **not already seen** nodes

Reviewer: Do we need to emphasize the "not already seen" part?
The purpose of this docs page is to explain how to use Memgraph for node classification, not how node classification works.
Besides, separating train and test sets is elementary ML.

:::info

This **MAGE** module is still in its early stage. We intend to use it only for

> **learning** activities. If you wish to make it production-ready, make sure

Reviewer: Furthermore, I’d change the message here:
* "If you wish to make it production-ready" < it's our job to do that, not the user's
* Asking the reader to give us a star right after telling them this is not a finished feature seems like it would backfire

> **learning** activities. If you wish to make it production-ready, make sure

Author: I don't know if it will backfire, but this way we explain to users that intention of this module is still to learn and explore about node classification

to either open a **[GitHub issue](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/issues)** or
drop us a comment on **[Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph)**. Also, consider
throwing us a :star: so we can continue to do even better work.

:::

## Procedures

> ### `set_model_parameters(params)`

Reviewer: Describe the structure of the dictionary (what variables can be set, which values are valid)

Author: Done

> The purpose of this function is to initialize all global variables. _You_ can change those via **params** dictionary. It checks if variables in **params** are defined appropriately. If so, map of default global parameters is overriden with user defined dictionary params.

Reviewer: For each function directly describe what it does, e.g. change this to "This function initializes all global variables".

Author: This is what it says, am I missing something?

Reviewer: I was suggesting the better wording - This function initializes all global variables" is shorter, clearer and more direct than "The purpose of this function is to initialize all global variables."

Author: Oh I see now, agree

- `layer_type (str)`: type of layer
- `aggregator (str)`: type of aggregator
- `learning_rate (float)`: learning rate
- `weight_decay (float)`: weight decay
- `split_ratio (float)`: ratio between training and validation data
- `metrics (list)`: list of metrics to be calculated
- `node_id_property (str)`: name of nodes id property
- `num_epochs (int)`: number of epochs
- `console_log_freq (int)`: frequency of logging metrics
- `checkpoint_freq (int)`: frequency of saving models
- `device_type (str)`: cpu or cuda
- `path_to_model (str)`: path where model is load and saved

#### Usage:

```cypher
  CALL node_classification.set_model_parameters(
    {layer_type: "GATJK", learning_rate: 0.001, hidden_features_size: [16,16], class_name: "fraud", features_name: "embedding"}
  ) PROCEDURE MEMORY UNLIMITED YIELD * RETURN in_channels;
```

### train(ctx: mgp.ProcCtx, no_epochs: int = 100)

This function performs training of model. It first declares data, model, optimizer and criterion. Then it performs training.
#### Input

- `ctx (mgp.ProcCtx)`: context of process
- `no_epochs (int, optional)`: number of epochs. Defaults to 100.

#### Exceptions

> - `Exception`: raised if graph is empty

Reviewer: Add the exception message here

- `train_log (mgp.Any)`: training parameters of record of logged data row
- `val_log (mgp.Any)`: validation parameters of record of logged data row

#### Usage
```cypher
  CALL node_classification.get_training_data() YIELD *;
```

### save_model()

This function saves model to model saving folder. If there are already total of **max_models_to_keep** models in model saving folder, oldest model is deleted.

#### Exception
- `Exception`: raised if model is not initialized or defined

#### Return values
`mgp.Record` of

- `path (str)`: path to saved model
- `status (str)`: status of saving model

#### Usage
```cypher
  CALL node_classification.save_model() YIELD *;
```

### load_model(num: int = 0)

This function loads model from defined folder for saved models.

#### Input

- `num (int, optional)`: ordinary number of model to load from default map. Defaults to 0 (newest model).

#### Return values
`mgp.Record` of 
- path (str): path to loaded model

#### Usage

```cypher
  CALL node_classification.load_model() YIELD *;
```

### predict(ctx: mgp.ProcCtx, vertex: mgp.Vertex)

This function predicts metrics on one node. It is suggested that user previously

> loads unseen test data to predict on it.

Reviewer: What does the second sentence refer to?

Author: To load the dataset completely before the user starts to test it.

Author: I changed wording a bit

---
id: node-classification-with-gnn
title: node_classification_with_gnn
sidebar_label: node_classification_with_gnn
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
<span
style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
{children}
</span>
);

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-node_classification-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/T515-IN-node-classification-with-pyg/python/node_classification.py)

## Abstract
**Node classification** is the problem of finding out the **right label** for a **node** based on its **neighbors’ labels** and **structure similarities**.

### About the query module

This query module contains all necessary functions you need to train GNN model on Memgraph. 

> You can find support for the following features in **node_classification** module:
> - support for both **homogeneous** and **heterogeneous** graphs
> - support for multiple-label and multi-edge-type graphs
> - **no restrictions on dataset size**
> - **multiple model architectures** layers to work on (inductive learning):
>     - **Graph attention with Jumping Knowledge**
>     - multiple versions of **Graph attention network (GAT)**
>     - **GraphSAGE**
> - support for **early stopping**
> - support for different **metrics calculations**
> - **predictions** for specific node
> - **saving** models and **loading** models
> - its applicability to use it as a **recommendation system**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `node_classification` module supports as follows:
- homogeneous and heterogeneous graphs
- multiple-label and multi-edge-type graphs
- any-size datasets
- the following model architectures:
    - Graph Attention with Jumping Knowledge
    - multiple versions of Graph attention networks (GAT)
    - GraphSAGE
- early stopping
- calculation of various metrics
- predictions for specified nodes
- model saving and loading
- recommendation system use cases
```

Reviewer: Condensed this so that users can skim the checklist more easily

If you want to explore our implementation, jump to **[github/memgraph/mage](https://github.com/memgraph/mage)** and find
`python/node_classification.py`. Feel free to give us a :star: if you like the code. 
The easiest way to test **node_classification** is by downloading [Memgraph Platform](https://memgraph.com/download)

> and using some of the preloaded datasets in **Memgraph Lab**.

Reviewer: Maybe rearrange these? It’s easier to try out Lab than to review unfamiliar code

Author: agree

Feel free to open a **[GitHub issue](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/issues)**
or start a discussion on **[Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph)** if you want
to speed up development.

## Usage
Load dataset in Memgraph, call `set_model_parameters`, and start training your model. When training is done, query module will save models. 
Afterwards, you can test modules on other data (which model has not already seen for example) and inspect the results!
The module reports the [mean average precision](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.average_precision_score.html)
for every batch `training` or `evaluation` epoch.

To **summarize** basic node classification workflow is as follows:

- load data to Memgraph
- set parameters by calling `set_model_parameters()` function. Be sure that **node_features** property on nodes are in place.
- call `train()` function
- inspect training results (optional) by calling `get_training_data()` function

> - optionally use `save_model()` and `load_model()` if you want

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- optionally use `save_model()` and `load_model()` 
```

- predict node class by calling `predict()` procedure

:::info

This **MAGE** module is still in its early stage. We intend to use it only for

> **exploring or learning** about node classification . If you wish us to make it production-ready, make sure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**exploring or learning** about node classification. If you wish us to make it production-ready, make sure
```

to either open a **[GitHub issue](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/issues)** or

> drop us a comment on **[Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph)**. Also, consider
> throwing us a :star: so we can continue to do even better work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
drop us a comment on **[Discord](https://discord.gg/memgraph)**.
```

Reviewer 2: Once is enough, this is documentation after all :)

:::

## Procedures

### `set_model_parameters(params)`

> This function initializes all global variables. _You_ can change those via **params** dictionary. It checks if variables in **params** are defined appropriately. If so, map of default global parameters is overriden with user defined dictionary params.
> After that it executes previously defined functions declare_globals and
> declare_model_and_data and sets each global variable to some value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The function initializes all global variables. _You_ can change global variables via **params** dictionary. It checks if variables in **params** are defined appropriately. If so, map of default global parameters is overriden with user defined dictionary params.
After that it executes previously defined functions declare_globals and
declare_model_and_data and sets each global variable to some value.
```

Reviewer 2: What is IT in that third sentence? Dictionary? 
If so = should this be -> if they are?

And later: after that IT executes - what is IT?

#### Input:
- `ctx: (mgp.ProcCtx)`: current context,
- `params: (mgp.Map, optional)`: user  defined parameters from query module. Defaults to {}

| Name                       | Type         | Default                                                                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                           |
|----------------------------|--------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | hidden_features_size       | List[Int]    | [16, 16]                                                                   | Embedding dimension for each node in new layer.                                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| hidden_features_size       | List[Int]    | [16, 16]                                                                   | Embedding dimension for each node in a new layer.                                                                                                                                       |
```

> | layer_type                 | String       | `GATJK`                                                                    | Type of layer used, supported: `GATJK`, `GAT`, `GRAPHSAGE`                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| layer_type                 | String       | `GATJK`                                                                    | Type of layer used, supported types: `GATJK`, `GAT`, `GRAPHSAGE`                                                                                                                            |
```

> | aggregator                 | String       | `mean`                                                                     | Type of aggregator used, supported: `mean`.                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| aggregator                 | String       | `mean`                                                                     | Type of aggregator used, supported types: `mean`.                                                                                                                                           |
```

Reviewer 2: Why is this even an option :D :)

| learning_rate              | Float        | 0.1                                                                        | Optimizer's learning rate.                                                                                                                                                            |
| weight_decay               | Float        | 5e-4                                                                       | Optimizer's weight decay.                                                                                                                                                             |

> | split_ratio                | Float        | 0.8                                                                        | Ratio between training and validation data                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| split_ratio                | Float        | 0.8                                                                        | Ratio between training and validation data.                                                                                                                                            |
```

> | metrics                    | List[String] | `["loss","accuracy","f1_score","precision","recall","num_wrong_examples"]` | List of metrics to report, supports any of combination "loss","accuracy","f1_score","precision","recall","num_wrong_examples"                                                         |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| metrics                    | List[String] | `["loss","accuracy","f1_score","precision","recall","num_wrong_examples"]` | List of metrics to report, supports any combination of "loss","accuracy","f1_score","precision","recall","num_wrong_examples"                                                         |
```

> | node_id_property           | String       | `id`                                                                       | Property name of node features                                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| node_id_property           | String       | `id`                                                                       | Property name of node features.                                                                                                                                                        |
```

| console_log_freq           | Integer      | 5                                                                          | Specifies how often results will be printed.                                                                                                                                          |
| checkpoint_freq            | Integer      | 5                                                                          | Specifies how often the model will be saved. The model is persisted on disc.                                                                                                          |
| device_type                | String       | `cpu`                                                                      | Defines if the model will be trained using the `cpu` or `cuda`. To run on `Cuda GPU`, check if the system supports it with `torch.cuda.is_available()`, then set this flag to `cuda`. |

> | path_to_model              | String       | "/tmp/torch_models"                                                        | Path from where model is loaded and where is stored                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| path_to_model              | String       | "/tmp/torch_models"                                                        | Path for loading and storing the model.                                                                                                                                   |
```

#### Exceptions:
- `Exception`: exception is raised if some variable in dictionary params is not correctly defined.

#### Output
- `mgp.Record(
    hidden_features_size=list,
    layer_type=str,
    aggregator=str,
    learning_rate=float,
    weight_decay=float,
    split_ratio=float,
    metrics=mgp.Any,
    node_id_property=str,
    num_epochs=int,
    console_log_freq=int,
    checkpoint_freq=int,
    device_type=str,
    path_to_model=str,
)` ➡ Map of parameters set for training

#### Usage:

```cypher
  CALL node_classification.set_model_parameters(
    {layer_type: "GATJK", learning_rate: 0.001, hidden_features_size: [16,16], class_name: "fraud", features_name: "embedding"}
  ) YIELD * RETURN *;
```

### `train(num_epochs)`

> This procedure performs model training. Firstly it declares data, model, optimizer and criterion. Afterwards it performs training.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This procedure performs model training. Firstly it declares data, model, optimizer, and criterion. Afterward it performs training.
```

Reviewer 2: criterion - just one?

Author: Yes, just one.

#### Input

> - `num_epochs (int, optional)` ➡ number of epochs. Default set to 100.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `num_epochs (int, optional)` ➡ number of epochs (default: 100).
```

Reviewer 2: Please make all of this start with a capital letter! :)

#### Outputs
- `epoch: int` ➡ epoch number
- `loss: float`➡ loss of model on training data
- `val_loss: float`➡ loss of model on validation data
- `train_log: list`➡ list of metrics on training data
- `val_log: list`➡ list of metrics on validation data

#### Usage
```cypher
  CALL node_classification.train() YIELD * RETURN *;
```

### `get_training_data()`
Use following procedure to get logged data from training.

#### Return values
- `epoch: int` ➡ epoch number for current record's logged data
- `loss: float`➡ loss in epoch
- `train_log: mgp.Any` ➡ training parameters for epoch
- `val_log: mgp.Any`➡ validation parameters for epoch

#### Usage
```cypher
  CALL node_classification.get_training_data() YIELD * RETURN *;
```

### `save_model()`

This function saves model to model saving folder. If there are already total of **max_models_to_keep** models in model saving folder, 
the oldest model is deleted.

#### Exception
- `Exception`: raised if model is not initialized or defined

#### Return values
- `path (str)`➡ path to stored model
- `status (str)`➡ status of stored model

#### Usage
```cypher
  CALL node_classification.save_model() YIELD * RETURN *;
```

### `load_model(num)`

> This function loads model from specified folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function loads the model from the specified folder.
```

#### Input

> - `num (int, optional)`: ordinary number of model to load from default path on disc. Defaults to 0 (newest model).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `num (int, optional)`: ordinary number of model to load from the default path on the disc (default: 0, i.e., newest model).
```

Reviewer 2: ordinary number? what do you mean?

Reviewer: It’s got to be ordinal number

Reviewer: However, this seems like bad UX to me and I believe we need to do it differently @antoniofilipovic

Author: I agree completely :) we can add task to MAGE to fix this  bug

#### Return values
- `path: str` ➡ path of loaded model

#### Usage

```cypher
  CALL node_classification.load_model() YIELD * RETURN *;
```

### `predict(vertex)`

> This function predicts metrics on one node. It is suggested to load even test data (data without labels). Test data
> won't be part of training or validation process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function predicts metrics on one node. It is suggested to load the test data (data without labels) as well. Test data
won't be a part of the training or validation process.
```
